---
layout: post
title: 21
---

<p>An abridged list of things I have learned in the past year – the unabridged one is a lot longer, I promise, but I culled it for the exciting stuff (which means you’re missing out on like four dozen obscure Java patterns, so it’s for the best):</p>


<ul>
<li>Time flies when you don’t have the convenient demarcations of semesters and midterms to keep you grounded.  (Thankfully, two-week sprints tend to alleviate this somewhat.)  You wake up one morning and it’s August 2013, and then it’s August 2014 and you are unsure of what just happened.</li>
<li>There is no better way to spend a Sunday morning than getting to La Panier right when it opens, getting a fresh amandine and an americano and something to read, and watching the rest of the world wake up.</li>
<li>Installing a sixty-foot whiteboard on my wall is the best $20 I will ever spend.</li>
<li>Manhattans are delicious.</li>
<li>But not as delicious as a good <a href="http://www.beeradvocate.com/beer/profile/700/80740/">milk stout</a>.</li>
<li>Cooking is science that you can eat and it is the best thing.</li>
<li>An equation to graph my monthly Chipotle consumption as a function of how many blocks away the closest location is: <code>f(x) = -.429x + 6.28</code>; when the closest one is ten blocks away (<code>x=10</code>), I’ll only eat there twice a month.  When they opened one in South Lake Union that was three blocks away from my office, the number jumps up to five times a month.  <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:1"><a href="#fn:1" rel="footnote">1</a></sup></li>
<li>MFDOOM is the best.  Ella Fitzgerald is the best.  Haruki Murakami is the best.  Sharon Olds is the best.</li>
<li>Tattoos don’t hurt nearly as much as expected <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:2"><a href="#fn:2" rel="footnote">2</a></sup>, especially when you have someone’s hand to hold/crush.</li>
<li>It is optimal to <a href="http://jmduke.com/posts/idk/">admit you don’t know shit</a>.</li>
<li>I will never stop playing Threes until I delete it from my phone.</li>
<li>I will never delete Threes from my phone.</li>
<li>I read too few books and too much everything else.  (I’m <a href="https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/34530762-justin-duke">working on this</a>, though!)</li>
<li>The most valuable – and, apparently, rarest – part of my college education was the ability to send emails well.</li>
<li>Iceland is gorgeous, and I need to travel more.</li>
<li>I was born into a tremendous, tremendous amount of luck, and it seems to increase at an incredible rate.</li>
</ul>


<p>The list for 22 has already started.  I’m hoping it has more things learned in foreign countries and less things about Chipotle <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:3"><a href="#fn:3" rel="footnote">3</a></sup>.</p>


<div class="footnotes">
<hr/>
<ol>
<li id="fn:1">Of course, this equation asserts that if there’s a Chipotle on my block (<code>x=0</code>) I’ll cap out at a mere <code>6.28</code>, which is an obvious lowball.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:1"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
<li id="fn:2">Sorry, Mom and Dad.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:2"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
<li id="fn:3">That’s a lie.  I would never hope for less Chipotle.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:3"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
</ol>
</div>
	