---
Title: "2014"
Date: 2014-12-31 00:00:00
Tags: ["personal"]
---

<p>I read a lot of Murakami this year.  I read <em>Kafka on the Shore</em>, then I read <em>The Wind Up Bird Chronicle</em>, then I read <em>Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki</em>, then I read <em>Norweigan Wood</em>.  He’s now one of my favorite authors. There are two big moments that he gave me:</p>


<ul>
<li>Barreling down a thin highway in Krabi, Thailand, packed like a sardine in a random van, my backpack pressed against my kness pressed against my chest like some sort of tourist panini, feverishly reading <em>Wind Up</em>.  Never had five hours felt more like five minutes.</li>
<li>Waiting for the bus on a rainy night in Fremont, a little tipsy and a little homesick, reading <em>Colorless Tsukuru</em>, finding this passage:</li>
</ul>


<blockquote>
<p>“That amazing time in our lives is gone, and will never return. All the beautiful possibilities we had then have been swallowed up in the flow of time.”</p>
</blockquote>


<p>Urban ennui is kind of Murakami’s shtick, and <em>Colorless</em> doubled down on this worry that as we grow older, we might grow wiser and more experienced but the universe of possibilities dwindles, never to recover.</p>


<p>Maybe it’s that this was the first full year away from college, but I get that sense that the number of big choices and possibilities in my life is on an increasing decline.  This is not to say that I’m unhappy with where I am or what I’m doing (because trust me, I’m totally pumped), but I think there’s an inherent value in serendipity.</p>


<p>One of my favorite things about college was the sense that I could wake up and anything could happen, and I got that feeling too for the first six months that was in Seattle – don’t get me wrong, I still love Seattle, but I think I know it too well now, I know all the shops in Belltown and the regulars at <em>The Upstairs</em> and <em>Uptown Espresso</em> and there are so few days that don’t go according to plan.</p>


<p>But that’s getting away from my point, which is this: Murakami left a taste in my mouth.  There aren’t any climactic moments in his books <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:1"><a href="#fn:1" rel="footnote">1</a></sup> – they tend to leave me a little awash and changed, like somehow I finished the book and all the things in my apartment are placed a little bit more differently than they used to be.  His work taught me some things about what I look for in the world – and myself – and I think that’s important.</p>


<h3 id="the-year-of-cocktails">The year of cocktails</h3>


<p>I spent more of my free time working on <a href="http://getbarback.com">Barback</a> than any other specific thing.  I’ve written at length about the nitty gritty, but one of the things that I hadn’t really noticed until writing this is that it’s the first thing that I’ve actually committed to for more than a couple months. Most of my random side projects I would either abandon in a fit of boredom after a couple of weeks, but this one has stuck, and it’s been awesome and totally fulfilling.</p>


<p>A positive thing happened last month: Barback started doing really, <em>really</em> well.  It was in the Top 10 for Food and Drink for a while, which was obviously nice from a monetary standpoint but it also just made me so proud.  I know, it sounds dumb, but validation for one’s work is a big thing that drives me and getting to stand back and be like: <em>Hey, this thing I made is succeeding</em> was pretty neat.</p>


<p>That’s probably the best that programming has ever made me feel.  Maybe the best that working in general has ever made me feel.  Not really sure what that means, but I think 2015 is going to have a lot of cocktails.</p>


<p>(Also, <em>I have to make sure the recipe is good</em> is the best reason ever to make a drink.)</p>


<h3 id="the-year-of-habits">The year of habits</h3>


<p>Every week for the past thirty weeks or so, I do the following things:</p>


<ul>
<li>Vacuum</li>
<li>Listen to a new album</li>
<li>Read a new book</li>
<li>Watch a new movie</li>
<li>Cook a new recipe</li>
<li>Play with a new app</li>
<li>Go to a new place</li>
<li>Write a new blog post</li>
<li>Learn a new thing <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:2"><a href="#fn:2" rel="footnote">2</a></sup></li>
<li>Run twice</li>
<li>Lift twice</li>
</ul>


<p>I have become addicted to novelty and progress.  I like the rhythm of these things: I like the feeling of gradual advancement it gives me, as if I’m playing a character in a video game and slowly levelling up all my skills with patience and diligence.  Sometimes I worry it distracts me from progress in other things, but looking back at the number of highlights on <code>kindle.amazon.com</code> I think I spend my time well. <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:5"><a href="#fn:5" rel="footnote">3</a></sup></p>


<p>It took me lots of time, Expo ink, and stickies to get into the habit of these things.  I am perhaps too pleased with myself for the fact that I can actually fry chicken, but it’s still a thing I hang my hat on.</p>


<h3 id="2014-in-a-nutshell">2014, in a nutshell</h3>


<p>I did lots of things, got better at lots of things, and probably drank a little too much.  There weren’t enough surprises, but it was a wonderful twelve months.</p>


<h3 id="the-next-year">The next year</h3>


<p>I ended this post last year with a list of goals, and the two of them that I actually accomplished (travelling and making an app) were pretty fantastic.  In that vein, I’m gonna set myself up with another three:</p>


<ul>
<li>Run a half-marathon</li>
<li>Three more countries <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:4"><a href="#fn:4" rel="footnote">4</a></sup></li>
<li>Write and publish a technical book <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:3"><a href="#fn:3" rel="footnote">5</a></sup></li>
</ul>


<p>And, as always:</p>


<ul>
<li>Be happy, healthy, and honest</li>
<li>Work and think hard</li>
<li>Never, ever, ever be bored</li>
</ul>


<p>(I know this whole ‘writing out your values’ thing is nerdy as all hell, but it still felt good to write this.  I’m looking forward to this time next year already.)</p>


<div class="footnotes">
<hr/>
<ol>
<li id="fn:1">Well, there are, but they’re cloaked in like four layers of symbolism
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:1"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
<li id="fn:2">This is usually defined as <em>do a random new language tutorial</em> or <em>do a week in a Coursera course</em>
<a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:2"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
<li id="fn:5">It straight up boggles my mind that I used to spend four hours a day in front of a PlayStation.  Then again, I spend half that time recently playing <em>Desert Golfing</em>…
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:5"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
<li id="fn:4">Frontrunners: Japan, Spain, Sweden.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:4"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
<li id="fn:3">I have thirty pages of <em>Python for Business Majors</em> somewhere on my laptop, but I’m thinking something a bit more niche.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:3"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
</ol>
</div>
	