---
title: "2016"
Date: 2016-12-25 00:00:00
Tags: ["personal"]
layout: post
---

<p>Welp.</p>


<p>2016 was a doozy.</p>


<p>There were lot of very good things. I started the best job of my life; I started living with my partner, and have never been happier; I’m in the best shape of my life.  I listened to a lot of great music, and ate multiple salads. (This sounds boastful, because it is, but I’m trying to be more honest about victories and defeats.)</p>


<p>There’s also, you know, the macro part of 2016.  Where, to be brief (because I’m not capable or insightful enough to put an interesting spin on things), <strong>very bad things happened.</strong></p>


<p>2016 has made me feel good and bad.  The good parts felt standard; the bad parts felt wholly new.</p>


<p>It is hard to reconcile a personal, immediate happiness and contentment with a shattered faith in institutions and basic understandings about the world.</p>


<p>So, largely, I haven’t tried to!</p>


<p>After a few weeks of general existential malaise I’ve worked harder than usual.  Part of this is coping mechanism – work to distract from <em>actual things</em> – but largely this is because I think this felt like the most natural way to produce something of value, to try and offset the bad things, to compartmentalize. <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:3"><a href="#fn:3" rel="footnote">1</a></sup></p>


<p>Anyway, every December I sit down in my grandparents’ den and think about the year that’s passed and think about the year ahead.  So that’s what I’m doing, because solipsism can be productive.</p>


<p>And this year, I don’t really have any takeaways or through lines?  I know what was good.  I know what was bad.  Further analysis seems pointless.</p>


<p>What I want to do more of next year is the same thing I tell myself every year: read more, write more, and work more meaningfully.</p>


<p>Goals are supposed to be concrete and measurable, so you can actually compare your progress against your objectives and all of that.  So here are the specific things:</p>


<ul>
<li><strong>Read 24 books.</strong></li>
<li><strong>Publish 500 words a week.</strong> <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:1"><a href="#fn:1" rel="footnote">2</a></sup></li>
<li><strong>Hit $2000 in monthly recurring profit.</strong> <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:2"><a href="#fn:2" rel="footnote">3</a></sup></li>
</ul>


<p>I know these goals are cliche.  I don’t think I’ll make them (though I hope to).  It just feels necessary – to have some sort of North Star, to try and be better.</p>


<p>I hope you are well.  I hope you have a good year.</p>


<div class="footnotes">
<hr/>
<ol>
<li id="fn:3">It goes without saying that there is <em>tremendous privilege</em> in the ability to compartmentalize at all.  I’m an agnostic white dude in tech: none of my immediate comforts or livelihoods are in danger.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:3"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
<li id="fn:1">I know a week is a cop-out, since most people do that every day.  But I’m more mindful of what I write at this point, and also there’s <em>no way</em> I carry through with 500 words a day.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:1"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
<li id="fn:2">I’ve been writing more about my side business, Village Blacksmith.  You can see the monthly review I wrote in <a href="villageblacksmith.consulting/november-2016">November</a>, and I’m in the process of writing December’s.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:2"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
</ol>
</div>
	