---
title: "Turning 25"
Date: 2017-09-03 00:00:00
Tags: ["personal"]
layout: post
---

<p>This week, I turned 25.</p>


<p>I spent my birthday doing the thing I want to spend every birthday doing: I reverse seared a filet, bought a nice scotch, and watched an old movie with Molly.</p>


<p>We were going to watch <em>Bridge on the River Kwoi</em> but didn’t want to start a three-hour movie at eight pm, so we watched <em>The African Queen</em>.</p>


<p>We have become so old.  It is fantastic.</p>

<!--more-->


<p>I do the thing I do every time I turn a new age, which is expressly deny the very <em>concept</em> of maturation until it seeps into my life anyway.</p>


<p>Like grabbing dinner and drinks with a couple friends who had moved out of town but were back for the week, and suddenly understanding that “grabbing dinner and drinks” has become an act that shifted from “order a pizza and go bar-hopping” to “make sandwiches and drink wine”.</p>


<p>(I mean, I still eat pizza, and we still go to bars.  But we eat less pizza, and spend less time in bars, and besides on the week of your birthday you’re forced to wonder how things have changed.)</p>


<p>I am re-reading what I <a href="http://jmduke.com/posts/2324/">wrote this time last year</a>, and discovering that most of my thoughts are redundant. I feel more mature but no more wiser.  I feel like I’m getting more rest but am slightly worried about forgetting what it feels like to be restless.</p>


<p>I am waking up early (I referred to waking up at 7 as <em>sleeping in</em>); I am eating well.  I find myself so tired at the day, but it’s an earned fatigue (to steal a friend’s phrase.). I am reading and writing and learning French, conjugated word by conjugated word.  I can deadlift more than I could deadlift twelve months ago.  I beat <em>Persona 5</em>.</p>


<p>And I’m happy.  Really, really happy.  If there’s something that I’m unhappy about, it’s that the days are short and the weeks are short and the months are the shortest of all.</p>


<p>We’re going to DC in a few weeks, and then after that Paris, and then after that we need to plan our next trip — Tokyo, maybe, or Edinburgh or Prague.  And then after that, maybe Little Rock.  I have always wanted to visit Little Rock, for reasons unexplainable.</p>


<p>There is still so much to discover.</p>


<p></p>
	