---
title: "Burnin"
Date: 2017-02-11 00:00:00
Tags: ["personal","productivity"]
layout: post
---

<p>Of all the talk of burnout in the technology industry, sometimes I feel like the opposite is a more apt descriptor:</p>


<blockquote>
<p>With phosphor-based electronic displays (for example CRT-type computer monitors or plasma displays), non-uniform use of pixels, such as prolonged display of non-moving images (text or graphics), gaming, or certain broadcasts with tickers and flags, can create a permanent ghost-like image of these objects or otherwise degrade image quality.</p>
<p>The length of time required for noticeable screen burn to develop varies due to many factors, ranging from the quality of the phosphors employed, to the degree of non-uniformity of sub-pixel usage. It can take as little as only a few weeks for noticeable ghosting to set in, especially if the screen displays a certain image (example: a menu bar at the top or bottom of the screen) constantly, and displays it continually over time</p>
</blockquote>


<p></p>


<p>The days where I finish exhausted and braindead scare me much less than the days where I walk away from the computer and still feel tethered, as if even if I go on a run I am faintly outlined with a phosphorescent glow.</p>


<p>The days where by 5pm I can’t bear the thought of working any further scare me much less than the days where by 5pm I can’t <em>stop</em> thinking about work.</p>


<p>Whenever I have one of those days, I know I need to dial it back: to switch the proverbial channel, to avoid burn-in.</p>


<p>I stop working on side projects; I take days off; I go on runs and find new sandwich shops.  I draw long breaths and warm baths.  I make cocktails and sit as far away from my computer as possible.</p>


<p>These days are thankfully rare, but I think the only intelligent thing to do is to heed them as warning signs and take the right precautions.  It’s not worth trying to play through the pain.</p>
	