---
layout: post
title: Pokémon Go 2.0
---
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Personal musings on the rise (and further rise) of <a href="https://twitter.com/PokemonGoApp?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@PokemonGoApp</a>, one of the most successful mobile games of all time.<a href="https://t.co/uXbtwye8Gb">https://t.co/uXbtwye8Gb</a></p>&mdash; Eric Feng (@efeng) <a href="https://twitter.com/efeng/status/1056351445702733824?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 28, 2018</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

This little thread made me nostalgic for the summer of 2016; a simpler, more gently cyberpunk dystopia.  So I redownloaded Pokémon Go and yeah: turns out the game is actually fun now!

- There's a lot more Pokémon.  While I am something of a 150/251 purist, the larger number of distinct things to capture definitely ups the dopamine.
- You now get little quest-marker-esque hints of nearby Pokémon and where to find them, meaning there's less aimless wandering in hopes of finding a Machoke.
- There are daily/recurring quests.
- Everything is even more gamified.  (*Catch ten ice Pokémon? Congrats, here's a thing that means nothing!)
- Vitally, the game no longer crashes every five minutes.

And, sure, the fad itself is done (no more gaggles of trainers everywhere you look) but as soon as I started playing the game I noticed a *lot* more folks in Seattle playing it as well.

I love the comparison to stamp collecting because it's true: I've barely touched the 'game' (there's some endgame stuff involving raiding, of which I am completely ignorant.) My Pokémon Go experience the past two weeks have been purely as a collector: I wander around my city and try and catch at least one new rascal a day.  This is vaguely rewarding in a Skinner box sense, but it's certainly not unpleasant.

As of today, I have 146 Pokémon caught.  Granted, that's including four regions (and a corpus of around 800 possible species), so it's much less impressive: but as far as a mechanism for getting me to close my Move ring and bounce around the city on a random Saturday afternoon, it's quite a nice little app.

It probably won't last another month, but it's fun!  It's good for what it is.
