---
layout: post
title: HQ2
---
Enough time has passed that I can issue a couple ~~hot takes~~ thoughts about HQ2:

- The "HQ2 selection" process was shameful and gross for everyone involved.
- Most of the economic analyses I've read on Twitter that argue Amazon is a net loss for these cities seem woefully misguided: the question isn't "will Amazon bring more money to these cities?" but "will the city improve?"
- If the folks in NoVa / Queens had any courage whatsoever, they'd realize that Amazon is going to move to those areas regardless and they'd start the benefit clawback process immediately.
- It would be disingenuous of me to cast aspersions on transplants flocking to Crystal City or Queens because, well, I was a transplant flocking to Seattle for Amazon in 2013.  And I liked it!  And I still like it. And any posturing of _ugh, those techies are going to ruin the flavor of the city_ feels very gross. [^1]
- I'm neither wise nor smart enough to answer the question *Is Amazon good for Seattle?* But the position of most non-Amazon tech companies in Seattle is that they're thankful for Amazon's presence, if for no other reason that they act as a lightning rod for all criticism of Seattle's rapid upheaval.
- Amazon continues to be a company that folks seem to ascribe malice despite cold rationality being the more fitting personality trait.  It's not Sauron; it's a paperclip maximizer.
- Get ready for some _truly_ uninspired architectural design.

[^1]: I've seen a lot of people who moved to SF for tech jobs issue such statements and while I haven't called them out, because I am a coward, it is unclear to me whether or not that's cognitive dissonance or just they think SF is a special case.
