---
Title: "22"
Date: 2015-08-31 00:00:00
Tags: ["personal"]
---

<p>I turned 23 yesterday. It was cool.</p>


<p>I wanted to think about all the stuff I learned and did when I was 22. Looking through what I said I learned <a href="http://jmduke.com/posts/21/">last year</a>, I was kinda shocked how well it kept up: my love for Manhattans, stouts, Chipotle, Murakami, and Threes has only grown.</p>


<p>What did I do this year?  What did I learn this year?</p>


<ul>
<li>I started <a href="/posts/dieter-rams-15-questions/">caring</a> a <a href="/posts/two-weeks-with-the-apple-watch/">lot</a> <a href="/posts/two-weeks-with-the-amazon-echo/">more</a> about technology and design.</li>
<li>I started going to a climbing gym.  Climbing gyms are great.  I’m pretty awful at climbing, but I’m less awful than I was six months ago, and even less awful than I was six days ago.</li>
<li>I figured out how to cook <em>sous vide</em>.</li>
<li>I figured out how to pronounce <em>sous vide</em>.</li>
<li>I fell in love with Ta-ku and Hemingway and Swift.</li>
<li>I made a lot of stuff!  Like, I worked a lot. <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:1"><a href="#fn:1" rel="footnote">1</a></sup>  Work, to me, is a weird thing – I think I’ve internalized the endorphin rush of productivity to the point where I feel too guilty to spend an evening without tinkering with a side project or working on a freelance thing.  At some point, I think this crossed the line of “great work ethic” into “unhealthy workaholism”.<br/></li>
<li>Since that last one sounded like a little bit of a downer, I should suffix it with this: I learned how to be really, really proud of the things I do.  After a childhood <sup class="footnote-ref" id="fnref:2"><a href="#fn:2" rel="footnote">2</a></sup> squandered more than it should have by Halo 2 et al, I can’t remember ever having so many days where I went to bed wholly excited about what I had done and what I’d be doing the next day.</li>
<li>I went to Stockholm and Bangkok and surprisingly did not die in either place.<br/></li>
<li>I read a lot.  I didn’t write enough.</li>
</ul>


<p>But the number one thing I keep learning time and time again, is the same thing I wrote last year:</p>


<ul>
<li>I was born into a tremendous, tremendous amount of luck, and it seems to increase at an incredible rate.</li>
</ul>


<p>I’m going to leave my big resolutions for the end of this year, but if 22 was marked by learning how to work hard and produce results, I want 23 to be marked by learning how to keep healthy.  (Which, tbh, will be a lot of hard work in of itself.  But at least I’m trying!)  Balance is something I’ve never been good at, but I want to change that.</p>


<div class="footnotes">
<hr/>
<ol>
<li id="fn:1">While I’ve made a personal promise to not talk about ~<em>~ the Amazon stuff ~</em>~ for the foreseeable future, rest assured that I have never cried at my desk or been backstabbed by anonymous feedback.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:1"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
<li id="fn:2">I say “childhood” but I just bought Rocket League, so there’s a little bit of relapse going on here.
 <a class="footnote-return" href="#fnref:2"><sup>[return]</sup></a></li>
</ol>
</div>
	